---
layout: post
title:      "Life, Coding, and Complications"
date:       2020-05-31 18:41:32 +0000
permalink:  life_coding_and_complications
---

I know that it gives us which subjects to write a blog about. But, I couldn't write about the suggested subject. So, instead I want to dive into the complications from life and trying to balance that with schooling. For me, it has not been an easy road. I had no idea what coding was, let alone any terminology of it. Starting this journey for me was stressful and frustrating. I am in cohorts with others that know so much more than I do. Which isn't bad, its really helpful actually. But I felt like the girl that failed no matter how hard I tried because I didn't have that knowledge. I felt like I was failing myself, my kids, and my family because I didn't know any of this stuff. And then, to top it off, life threw me a few curve balls.

I initially started in September of 2019. But life had other ideas. I started with my cohort on time. Then, the curve ball. My son had an ATV accident which resulted in finding that he had cyst sitting on his brain. The doctors appointments back to back for 5 months. One way to two of his doctors was a two hour drive. Trying to keep my son calm, my daughter from freaking at the same time with school and all the appointments was not easy. Then to top it off, his tonsils and adnoids had to be removed because they were cutting off his airway. So, surgery was the only thing that could be done for that part. As we dealt with all this and me trying to keep caught up on the work for school and working a full-time job I honestly thought I would have to quit school. I didn't see any other options at the time.

But, Flatiron worked with me. They helped me by giving me the time I needed to take care of my family, get my son to his doctors and be able to work. They asked constanly how he was doing, and even talked to him and my daughter. The kids loved that. It brought a new normal for us and actually helped with calming the kids emotions and even mine. Knowing that the cohort leads and others at Flatiron cared enough to ask about the kids health and how they were doing made a world of difference.

Another curve ball hit us. The covid-19 pandemic and having to move. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had to move out of the house we were in. It was falling to peices and I didn't see it as safe. We didn't own the house. We were renting. But we had no idea where we were going to go. In the end we moved into a camper until we could get our forever home built. But doing this meant no internet for a month at least. I informed Flatiron and they worked with me yet again. The helped me do what I needed to do to get a leave of absence while we moved and waited for the internet to be set up. With the cohort I got into this time, I was a bit ahead. So, I used the time to take notes that I hoped would help me with remembering the terminology. Which, it has some. Though I do go through and study my notes so that I can retain the information and have it later if needed.

Now, we are still living in a camper and things have changed yet again for us. I quit my job and we are researching things to figure out which way we want to go to have our forever home. None of this has been easy for my family. But I do have to say that coding has become my comfort activity. It helps me realize that no matter what happens I can figure it out. They say that we use real-world objects and information for coding. But it can also be applied to everyday life in more ways than people think. Through all this, it seemed like a crazy mess I couldn't figure out. Seeing that coding is something we create and puzzles we put together and errors we fix. It was easy to apply almost the same concepts to life. 

My life is like coding. The puzzles, errors, and creation. So, I used what little knowledge I had and applied it to my everyday life. It has helped me take control and figure out how to handle issues and deal with other things. I know this is all over the place. From health issues to a world-wide pandemic, the help I received from the Flatiron staff and our own living conditions and how coding has helped navigate issues. Honestly coding has helped in navigating everyday life. I earlier called coding chemistry for computers, which it still is. But it is also a good way to help figure out how to navigate daily life and the curve balls it throws your way. 

I do not regret anything. Yes, I wish my son didn't have the health issues. I am his mom. No mom wants to see their child scared or sick. But, coding and Flatiron has helped us more than anyone can imagine. Not only has learning coding been helping me navigate my daily life but also has showed me that no matter what is going on there is always a dream that you can chase and make come true. I may still be working towards that dream, but being backed by my family, friends, and Flatiron as a school and the staff have made me realize that even with me starting with no knowldge of this stuff before, I can do this. I can graduate. I CAN MAKE THIS HAPPEN!!!

Thank you to the Flatiron staff for helping us through everything and to the creators of Flatiron for making it possible for a small town woman like me, who thought I would always be working dead end jobs, to be able to do more with my life. Not only for me but for my kids as well. 

Coding is not only a trade to be learned, but one to be learned from. Life has complications, sometimes it feels like one big complication. But coding can help in more ways than people think. When you can apply those concepts to daily life, not only does it help you but it can help you with your schooling by helping you understand how the code works. 

Have fun, learn, enjoy and don't take this chance for granted.
